Israeli authorities say a number of
people have been arrested after
protesters in the occupied West Bank
blocked an aid Convoy Bound for Gaza the
protesters were seen throwing food
packages onto the road and destroying
some of it the trucks came from Jordan
and were waiting to cross the Taria
checkpoint west of Hebron a farri
Israeli group says they were
demonstrating against the continued
Detention of Israeli hostages in Gaza
now the United Nations has warned that
Palestinians in North Northern Gaza are
experiencing a fullblown famine this as
the Israeli Army returned there to fight
resurgent Hamas
forces smoke Rises over jabalia in
Northern
Gaza Hamas operatives have returned to
the area as Israeli forces pushed to
retake parts of Gaza they had previously
cleared civilians are caught in the
crossfire
they're are wounded and dead that we
cannot reach because of the consistent
bombing of our crews and ambulances by
Israeli forces ambulances are being
directly targeted and the artillery
continues to launch rockets into the
center of the jabalia
camp according to gaza's Hamas run
Health Ministry over 35,000 Palestinians
have been killed in the war while the
United States Israel's strongest Ally
says it doesn't does not believe a
genocide is happening in Gaza the White
House has uttered some of its strongest
criticism of Israel's war effort to date
military operation has to be connected
to a political plan for the day after so
that there is a clear alternative and
there's governance and there's security
and all of the steps you need to take to
finally and fully defeat a hardened
entrenched terrorist Foe and yes um one
of the risks of engaging in any kind of
counter insur campaign is the ability of
the terrorist group to attract more
recruits and more followers as time goes
on this is something we have talked to
the Israelis about meanwhile in Rafa in
the south of Gaza Israeli forces are
carrying out what they call a limited
Military operation to root out one of
the last Hamas strongholds the Army says
it's taken out dozens of terrorists and
found tunnels and weapons Depot but the
latest operation has also forced
hundreds of thousands of civilians to
again flee this time
northwards let's bring in NOA
tarnopolski a freelance journalist in
Jerusalem who has covered Israel and the
Palestinian territories for decades
welcome in addition to Rafa Israel's
force is now also going back into the
north of Gaza pounding areas that they
said they had cleared months ago but now
seeing Hamas regrouping there um how
much of a setback is this for Israel and
and what does it tell us about Israel's
war
strategy well um what it tells us is
that Gaza is on its way to becoming an
Israeli Quagmire it's not so much a
setback as simply uh a logical next PATH
for a major military operation that has
no political diplomatic strategic end
point in such
as the US state department as the White
House excuse me said so clearly um I
have to say that Israeli military top
brass have been warning of this
situation for at least several months
now and the government appears to be
paralyzed when asked to um determine
what its end point for this fighting is
tell us more about this paralysis as you
say we heard Jake Sullivan there um
urging a plan for the day after um also
we heard on Monday a senior US state
department official saying that
Washington does not think that Israel's
goal of victory over Hamas and Gaza is
likely or even possible what is the
Israeli government doing with that
assessment well as strange as it is to
say this the Israeli government has not
responded to those assessments has not
said a word and has used the cover of
two major national holidays here
Memorial Day followed by Independence
Day today and really the shattered
feeling of most Israeli
citizens um it has used this as a cover
not to have to respond the other thing
that's important to say is that Israeli
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has
not made himself available either to the
press or to the public so there has been
no opport opportunity given the
government's lack of response to ask
directly and I think it's also important
to say that Netanyahu himself who has
been repeating now for several months
this motto total Victory it's become
really a daily slogan has never defined
it either in Israel or abroad not to the
media and not to anyone else um you
could see part of this frustration and I
think it's also important to say part
part of the real heartbreak of uh
Israeli citizens yesterday um in
Memorial Day event in the only event in
which Netanyahu was even nearby to any
members of the
public he was present at the National
Memorial event for falling soldiers and
a parent of a soldier who fell in this
war yelled out at him you know heckled
him um which is very very unusual at
that kind of a formal ceremony I would
say it's even unheard of so the
situation is one in which it appears the
Israeli government just does not want to
respond to the reality that you're
describing do you see a way that
netanyahu's government could redefine
this goal is there an off-ramp for him
if Israel is not successful in outing
Hamas from
Gaza um yeah although first I have to
say it's unclear what is meant by outing
Hamas from Gaza because the Israeli
government has been given a very clear
Opportunity by very important Partners
the United States and Egypt in this case
Egypt borders on the other side of Gaza
um to install Palestinian officials with
wider Arab military backing to take over
power from Hamas in the Gaza Strip the
reason that one of the reasons that
Israel has not been able to to uproot
Hamas uh Power Point within Gaza is that
it is refusing to determine who will
take power if a different um governing
body were brought into Gaza with
military backing that would make
Israel's task a lot easier but the
Israeli government refuses to do that
the reason is political nenia who fears
losing some of his um more Hardline
ministers if he agrees to to allow the
Palestinian Authority in but he will
absolutely break international support
for Israel if he publicly says that
Israel is simply going to remain there
as an occupying power and stuck between
these two pressures he has simply chosen
indecision that's that's where Israel is
for now thank you so much for joining us
with those insights today that is
journalist noga
tarnopolski for